Okay.
So in this lecture let's re-use the simple message listener implementation and wrap debt class into
real SMTP server as we are going to use in our application.
So for that purposes, we create.
New class, let's name it SMTP service service.
So let's type and name it.
Yeah.
So we have that service and understanding of springboard.
So we added at service annotation.
We need to add SMTP server.
You can see it's an object or class part of dependency we use for running SMTP server in our application.
So let's choose the correct one.
We have this SMTP server object and then we need to start that SMTP server when our application actually
starts.
So we create a start method and we use a post construct annotation.
So that method is being started when all dependencies are handled by spring boot.
And that object, I mean a SMTP server service is created.
So that post construct method is going to run.
Now we use the simple message listener implementation.
We just created a formal lesson.
And to we creating you instance here and we use that instance in in creating a SMTP server object as
such.
So we use that variable we just created above.
We create a new SMTP server as a parameter, we create a new SMTP message listener adapter.
It's just kind of a helper class and we need to provide a parameter parameter for constructor.
So we use this simple message listener we just created and we then set a few.
Options that are available for SMTP server.
So we have a bunch of things we can set.
We we choose some kind of a minimum.
So we set hostname as a local host, we set.
We set a port number.
It's just to be sure it's not clashing with anything else running on our system.
And we we can set a time out for communication.
So we set the value at some level just to be safe.
And then when those options are set, we we call a start method.
So this SMTP start actually starts SMTP server.
So inside of our application, the SMTP server is being served as configured on previous lines.
So it's running a local host on Port 10,025 with some connection timeouts.
So we have more options here if you are a more familiar a familiar with SMTP service.
So it's something you probably understand.
So you can change a few more things if needed.
This is some kind of a minimum we are going to use here and we can also add some logging information
so we can observe things are running smoothly when we start our application.
So let's add logging saying that SMTP service running it should be running because we call a start method
on SMTP server object so to service running on for domain and port.
So let's set things as we just set up earlier.
So it should be running a local host and the port.
And this is the just the first part.
So when application starts, we need to start SMTP server and of course we must handle somehow stopping
the server so we can create a stop method and we can simply call the SMTP server.
Stop method.
But we can just create a condition.
We can just check a SMTP service running and if it is running, we can stop the server.
So we just want to avoid any null pointer or anything and then we use annotation destroy.
So this method is being called when entire application is being stopped.
So it's its use, incorrect order of the logic of anti application.
So at using a post construct we start when application is stopping, we we just stop SMTP so now we
can run.
Our application.
So we have some kind of a minimum SMTP server defined in our application and we should see at least
that everything is starting correctly.
So we have no failure, we have no null pointer or anything else.
So application should start smoothly.
And of course, we should see somewhere in the console that our application is running so we can check
the information and the console.
We can see the message we are printing.
SMTP server is running for domain or local host so message is here.
We have a few more messages coming directly from SMTP server we just started.
So we have information that SMTP started as such and we can see we have a few more informations coming
directly from SMTP server.
So we have a full, full overview.
It says even it's starting so we can see it's starting.
Then we can see the lock message coming from our implementation and then we can see service started.
So we can see or we have a full picture of starting the server and kind of the minimum for running SMTP
directly in our application.
And SMTP is really running on the port we specified.
So it started running and then later in other lectures we implement email message processing.
We take a look how to connect to that SMTP sending emails.